A psychological point of view on how perceived control can impact a person’s behavior regarding social networking sites, and how this would impact the contribution or shares to those sites from both men and women. In order to establish the context of this perception, the Author’s go in detail in order to provide data driven analytics on the impact on the behavior which would ultimately affect ones attitude.

Privacy is the main concern for social networking sites and how the perceived control would impact the behavior and attitude of a person(s) in order for them to contribute to the sites. The lack of secured data of personal information residing in social networking content such as news feeds, blogs or other means, is becoming an ethical necessity. How the users are be able to control what data other individuals, including businesses can see or extract in order to data mine. This collection of data, if the users were not aware or did not wish this to become public knowledge is a growing concern. 

It is crucial to establish a cognitive response from how individuals differ based on gender and age as well. Additionally, how these individuals may interact with social networking sites. In order to accomplish those concerns and data points, a gender comparison included with age and other characteristics was analyzed. The data was collected at a University in the north west of the U.S. A data gathering method for these individuals’ responses to help with the understanding on perceived control was provided from a survey based data collection source.

Data from the survey yielded results, which provided that women are more concerned to the privacy control than men. This leads to less contributions to the social networking sites from the female gender, where males are generally not as much concerned. This perception which impacts the attitude and behavior is based on the privacy risk, which women are not willing to take because they do not want their personal information available for anyone or business to attain without their knowledge.

Assessment:

The privacy concerns are legitimate and an on-going process that must be discussed when ethics is a must for social media sites and corporations. Social media sites will be held liable if privacy is not being upheld for the consumers. These organizations should and must have a defined policy in order to secure user data that is not meant to be shared. The policies should also mandate a known central location where documentation is provided and/or stated on how to secure data versus information a person deems appropriate for public knowledge on what is acceptable to be searched and data mined.

How do we know who or what regulates social media sites and especially the social media giants like Facebook? There would have to be some form of governance in order for social media sites to abide by privacy rules and regulations, and if these rules or regulations were violated, then actions should be taken. The United States government has assigned that responsibility to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). Recently, an example of the importance that the FTC has in relation to privacy and social media was with the following report, in July of 2019.

According to (ftc.gov, 2019), “Facebook, Inc. will pay a record-breaking $5 billion penalty, and submit to new restrictions and a modified corporate structure that will hold the company accountable for the decisions it makes about its users’ privacy, to settle Federal Trade Commission charges that the company violated a 2012 FTC order by deceiving users about their ability to control the privacy of their personal information.”

In order to discuss perceived control, a detailed examination of privacy and what social media sites are liable and/or held responsible for is a necessity.  Handling of private user data will be secured or actions will be taken by the FTC to the “fullest extent of the law”. The publication on this study “The Role of Perceived Control of Information” was in 2014 where the FTC consent order report against Facebook was in 2019. It is highly conceivable that the individuals surveyed did not know of a governing body that investigates social medial sites. If the same sample could be surveyed again after having an understanding of this, then I believe this would return a positive increase to the perceived control and behavior for both genders. 

This assumption is based on the associated risk. If the associated risk would be less knowing that there is a governing body, versus not having this information regarding the FTC. The more the risk is decreased, the higher the perceived control affecting the behavior and attitudes of the users would also increase. More so, when the risk decreases then trust in the social media sites could be established by the consumers, and therefore a higher input on social media news feeds, blogs and other messaging forums from women. Since the original data set did yield that men were not extremely concerned, the increase of social media involvement would more than likely come from women.

The privacy risk that’s explained in this article has established that trust and privacy is the concern when correlated to perceived control. Users also could consider social media sites as ethical, whereas discussed that ethics is not an image that social media sites have. When trust is established, this would lead to users having an opinionated theory that ethical standards is being attained.  Since this perception when negative would propagate to negative or social media sites unwanted behavior, we can also state that the positive perceived control would propagate to positive and wanted behavior for these same sites. This is the reasoning I state where more social media interaction would increase from women.
Critical Thinking:
Security in Information Technologies has advanced significantly. These advancements are not only in software, but in hardware and cloud based architectures (including mixed on premise with cloud). Processes now can be monitored and traced, which would determine if the processes actions are malicious in content or legitimate processes. This tracing will monitor the process for the duration of the processes run-time execution. 
Variation of security software/hardware exist such as,  Anti-Malware software, Firewalls which can also embed Anti-Malware scan engines, ISP/content filtering appliances, and many other devices and software that are designed to help with protecting Information Systems organizations assets. What is protected varies dependent on what the Device, solution, or software is designed to monitor respectively.
For instance, not all security solutions scan for vulnerabilities. There is also malicious content that is not known until a system is impacted. There is technically no such thing as a zero day threat response. Which is why malware labs teams at security firms collect payloads of unknown malicious content. This is then reverse engineered, in order to revert the damage done if a system was impacted, and also to update the content or dat packages so the threat can be detected and reducing the further environmental impact.
Due to the concern that malware causes, security firms know zero threat malware is difficult to contain. This is why software has been designed more towards behavioral analysis. The example of tracing a process from beginning to end, is a commonly used threat detection mechanism which monitors processes behavior.
Reference:
ftc.gov. (2019, 07 24). ftc-imposes-5-billion-penalty-sweeping-new-privacy-restrictions. Retrieved from Federal Trade Commision Protecting America's Consumers: https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2019/07/ftc-imposes-5-billion-penalty-sweeping-new-privacy-restrictions